---
layout: blogpost
title: Every Day
---

# Every Day

### My vices:
1. Aiming by thought alone and not feeling. *(chasing requirements instead of excitement and joy)*
2. Looking over my shoulder to judge myself and others.
3. Afraid that I am not good enough. *(Living in a spirit of criticism instead of approval.)*
4. Too afraid to work on something specific instead of dreaming about analogies. *(To be or to do.)*
5. Too afraid to accept complexity and make choices.
6. I think that I need to be better than other people for them to accept me.
7. Thinking in terms of money and things; not people.
8. Thinking in binaries instead of graduations and equilibriums.
9. Letting the idea of perfect get in the way of making the better.
10. Assuming that people don't want to communicate by default.

I want to spend less time thinking about what I want to do, and more time doing it.

Don't try to save or hold onto time, spend time doing joyful things with and for others.

I am already good enough, and so is everyone else.

“Be Content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you.” - Lao Tzu

Today is an exception.

I am going to die.

Don’t live half heartedly.

Love sets the direction, thought puts the pieces together to get there.

Instead of working back from a goal, work forward from promising situations.

All of my successes have been due to my honesty.

I am not clever or stupid, I can simply make useful, beautiful things.

What we think, we become.

It's all about the other, and ‘us’.

Be sure to think from someone else's perspective at least once a day.

Share life with others, I am not alone.

It's not only OK, but it's wonderful to be vulnerable and honest with others, regardless of relation.

When you feel tension or misunderstanding with someone, try to get their point of view.

The one thing I and everyone else wants, is to feel loved and important.

How am I helping make the world better for ‘us’ today?

I can make the world better for ‘us’, do it.

The best protection is always to be working on hard problems. Writing novels is hard. Reading novels isn’t.

“Meaningful” work is just work that I perceive to be useful to others. This simply is the kind of work I want.

Don't think about work when I'm not doing it.

Know the difference between thinking about something, and actually doing it.

Replace "this is hard" with "this will take time".

It's about doing a lot of experiments, not doing a lot of thinking.

Curiosity vs. caution.

The fear of not knowing if something will work is *way* worse than actually failing.

A person is not made bad by what they purchase, nor good by what they refrain from purchasing.

Don’t wait for opportunities, go out there and look for them.

Design for smiles.

Love, fun, and joy are essential to success.

Motivation management, not time management.

Feeling down? Be light and thankful.

You cannot control your feelings, but you can control your actions, which influences your feelings.

I am a lover, friend, inventor, businessman, leader, adventurer, student, and more. I am not a spectator.

Great things have always been achieved by normal, flawed people. I am a normal, flawed person.

Assume I’m below average. Below average people can still live a happy life and do great things!

Learn the lay of the land where you want to go. Figure out how things actually work.

Have a goal, have a vision of something being better, believe it is possible, take tiny steps every single day towards it.

Don't think joy, feel joy.

Notice mental rendering. It won't make me satisfied. It cannot predict experience.

Be happy, I am not limited, I can improve.

Letting go is so we can fully turn towards the good.

Do not live looking back over my shoulder. Focus fiercely on doing something better next.

Strip things down and use what you have.

Get good at telling truth from ego.

Know the difference between excitement and satisfaction.

If I can't explain something in simple-terms, I do not understand it.

What I have not created, I do not understand.

Choose what to keep, not what to get rid of.

Facing challenge is worth it to make good things happen.

Seek better, not perfect.

Make *exciting* things, not things that are ’the best’ or ’impressive’.

It's not about having all the answers, it's about showing that something better is possible.

Act not out of a desire to control the situation, but out of love for others and yourself.

Fight to make something great. Do not chase wealth or status on their own.

Self-consciousness is the enemy of interestingness.

Seriousness. :P

Hang loose.

- - -
The fear of The Lord is a fountain of life,
so that one may avoid the snares of death.

Why > How > What

We are each assigned our post in life.
The challenge and purpose of life is to seek your post and then courageously guard and stand for it.

Priorities:
- Loved Ones
- Health
- Work
- Fun

What counts:
Maintaining a healthy mind,
not only for my own benefit,
but so I am compassionate,
and make the world better for others.

This idea of newness, of coming into being from nothing.
This is so exciting.
The idea of being able to create.
To be able to make something real.
To be able to act as a material agent.
This is intensely exciting.

- - -
Your work is a gift.

Design for my unique taste, give my unique gift to the world.

Love & accept others and myself.

Do not hide your passion.

Happiness is not something to seek, but something to surrender to.

Do things I want and let myself enjoy them.

Trust in God.

Improve myself.

Be present.

This is my life.

These are the circumstances, acknowledge them, enjoy them, use them to make things better.

Shift focus to the good.

Out perception is what we expect to see.

Be mindful, in all action.

Control only myself.

Be mindful of where I’m looking for satisfaction.

The belonging I seek lies ahead of me, not behind me.

Financial transactions are amoral.
What we focus out lives on is not.

Do not teach others what to think, but how to think.

Do great things, not justified things.

Don’t assume others will affect the change I wish to see.

Seek to understand another before you try to inform.

Living well is a philosophy, not a competition.

Have the courage and clarity to love myself and others.

Human attention is a profoundly valuable commodity. Spend it wisely.

Always do what I think is right.

Expect something of myself.

To discover what someone believes, listen not to what they say, but look at what they do.

Things usually lay on a spectrum, rarely do they fit in good or bad bins.

Be kind, not just right.

Be thankful, not consuming.

The present moment does not need to be any more than it is.

I am just as worthy as anyone else.

I am going to die.

Don’t have expectations.

Create your good things for others, let others make their good things for you. Impact requires entrepreneurship.

Things are unpredictable, so just go for it.

Have confidence in the goal, not my ego.

Put your inner critic on mute, banish perfectionism.

Having guts always works out for me.

Be confident in all my decisions.

Do things because I want to, not because I have to.

Follow the passion & excitement.

Freedom, not finances.

Do not judge yourself negatively for facing challenge.

Be sure to enjoy everything I do in life.

Happiness cannot be sought in external things.
It is acceptance and gratitude within yourself.

I don't always have to be racing towards something.

All time is not equivalent and interchangeable.
Our lives move according to real rhythms.

Don't let others influence my existence for the worse.

Don't get caught up watching what others are doing.
Do your own thing.

Be excited by and happy about other’s great work.

Don’t be afraid to use great discoveries by others in your own work. It’s about moving things forward, not being first.

Don’t spend so much time judging others.
Just focus on what you love.

Don't EVER worry that your work isn't looking 'professional' or similar enough. JUST do what works best and makes you smile.

Trying to look good limits my life.

Look people in the eye, straight on.

Don't be afraid to take responsibility for big decisions.

Try to be honest more than sarcastic.

Don't be a smokey fire, be a fire that burns hot and clean.

Everybody who is honest is interesting.

To be interesting, you must be interested.

Don’t be afraid to tell others how I feel.

Be aware of how I really feel, and thus what I am communicating.

My own pleasures and pains are too small and boring a theater for my intelligence.

Compliment others.

Everyone I meet is in some way my superior.

The journey is the reward.

See the bigger picture, see the situation for what it really is.

Desire to produce good, not consume.

Don’t rob from the future.

Restraint and Focus are simply tools to help you accomplish what you really want.

It's not about what I can get, it's about what I can give.

Don't have goals, instead feel accomplished by actually doing.

You cannot eliminate uncertainty with pure cognition.

Don’t spend a lot of time thinking about unknowns.
Find out for real as soon as possible.

The most difficult part of the pursuit of wisdom is actually consistently living by it.

It's easy to dwell on the past or future, because all your responsibility to act is now.

Good is only potential until you bring it into existence.
Then it is a real good.

Success should simply be a result of how I live my life, not an end to be pursued.

You can change things.

Don't ever think you know what you're doing, never stop looking for other ways to do things.

Be careful not to pursue means instead of true ends.

Don’t Panic.

Confidence is freeing.

Two crappy pages a day.

Don't assume, especially in relationships.

Act in life, don't react.

Gain control by relaxing, not grasping.

A small bit of consistent work and forethought goes a long way.

Imagine living the way I do now for the next 10 years.

If you rely on willpower alone to make life changes, you will generally fail.

Approach life with an attitude of victory.

"I'm building a wall."
Vs.
"I'm building a cathedral."

What is worth doing today?

Never fear not doing what you want, just do it.

Fear is the enemy of focus.
Fear shuts down the higher parts of the brain.

Being alive is a very slim chance.
I am very lucky to have life.
Make the most of it, enjoy it.

Worry, sadness, and bitterness will ruin my life far more than any material occurrence.

Design how I want life to be, what I like.
Do not worry about things I don't like. They are irrelevant.

I can shape my life exactly as I see fit. Do not try to fit into a label!

- - -
If you faint in the day of
adversity,
your strength being small;
if you hold back from rescuing
those taken away to death,
those who go staggering to the
slaughter;
if you say, "Look, we did not
know this" -
does not he who weighs the
heart perceive it?
Does not he who keeps watch
over your soul know it?

"Acedia" in Latin means sorrow, deliberately self-directed, turned away from God, a loss of spiritual determination that then feeds back on in to the process, soon enough producing what are currently known as guilt and depression, eventually pushing us to where we will do anything, in the way of venial sin and bad judgment, to avoid the discomfort.
Occasions for choosing good present themselves in public and private for us every day, and we pass them by. Acedia is the vernacular of everyday moral life. Though it has never lost its deepest notes of mortal anxiety, it never gets as painful as outright despair, or as real, for it is despair bought at a discount price, a deliberate turning against faith in anything because of the inconvenience faith presents to the pursuit of quotidian lusts, angers and the rest. The compulsive pessimist's last defense -- stay still enough and the blade of the scythe, somehow, will pass by -- Sloth is our background radiation, our easy-listening station -- it is everywhere, and no longer noticed.
The emphasis has shifted from truth and beauty, to comfort and happiness.
Mass production demanded it.

> ”You might think you want an expensive car, a fancy watch, and a huge house. But I’m telling you, you don’t. What you want is respect and admiration from other people, and you think having expensive stuff will bring it. It almost never does — especially from the people you want to respect and admire you.
When you see someone driving a nice car, you probably don’t think, “Wow, that person is cool.” Instead, you think, “Wow, if I had that car people would think I’m cool.” Do you see the irony? No one cares about the guy in the car. Have fun; buy some nice stuff. But realize that what people are really after is respect, and humility will ultimately gain you more of it than vanity.”

> “The habit of analysis has a tendency to wear away the feelings, as indeed it has when no other mental habit is cultivated..” - John Stuart Mill

So cultivate non-analytical skills.  I’m cultivating sponginess, allowing myself to soak in the world, to wonder, to experience without constantly reducing life to problems and solutions and efficiency and goals.  I’m going against the nurture of two decades of business and mainstream society, neither of which have taught me all that much about how to live with consistent satisfaction and happiness on a personal level.
For a moment, I felt deflated and confused, but then I realized with a start that I was analyzing again — looking, as usual, in the wrong place for understanding things of this nature: My head.

> “Imagine life as a game in which you are juggling some five balls in the air. You name them – work, family, health, friends and spirit … and you’re keeping all of these in the air.
You will soon understand that work is a rubber ball. If you drop it, it will bounce back. But the other four balls – family, health, friends and spirit – are made of glass. If you drop one of these, they will be irrevocably scuffed, marked, nicked, damaged or even shattered. They will never be the same.” - Brian Dyson

> “I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story. From the tip of every branch, like a fat purple fig, a wonderful future beckoned and winked. One fig was a husband and a happy home and children, and another fig was a famous poet and another fig was a brilliant professor, and another fig was Ee Gee, the amazing editor, and another fig was Europe and Africa and South America, and another fig was Constantin and Socrates and Attila and a pack of other lovers with queer names and offbeat professions, and another fig was an Olympic lady crew champion, and beyond and above these figs were many more figs I couldn’t quite make out. I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig tree, starving to death, just because I couldn’t make up my mind which of the figs I would choose. I wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the figs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet.” - Slyvia Plath

> “Having a goal, stating a goal, all that is is having a vision of where you want to go down the road. Looking on down the road, not staring at your feet, not looking at where you are now and going ‘aw God damn, I’m still in this fricken place’. It’s stating to the universe, that’s where I’m going” - James Victore

the meantime
n. the moment of realization that your quintessential future self isn’t ever going to show up, which forces the role to fall upon the understudy, the gawky kid for whom nothing is easy, who spent years mouthing their lines in the wings before being shoved into the glare of your life, which is already well into its second act.

You don’t know something until you’ve done it over and over: When the instructor explains something, it makes sense, and it feels like you know the concept. Then you try to do it and realize you didn’t understand it at all. Then you learn how to do it, but you’re still getting several things wrong. Then you start to correct those but realize you don’t know how to put it all together. It’s so interesting to me how much we think we know, but are wrong about. Drilling something over and over, though, helps get you closer to knowing.

People stuck in unrequited situations may garner a lot of sympathy and seem like the natural friends of true love. But they tend to be no such things. They are timid visitors to the land of love, who have carefully chosen situations which will prevent them from ever taking up more permanent residence. They are self-saboteurs, who would rather be in control of a sad situation than half out of control of a happy one.

> ”It always amazes me how many people refuse to even put themselves in a position to be lucky. The small amount of success I've had in my life has been 99% related to just showing up.” - mikekij, Hacker News

> ”It is a profoundly erroneous truism, repeated by all copy-books and by eminent people when they are making speeches, that we should cultivate the habit of thinking of what we are doing. The precise opposite is the case. Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them. Operations of thought are like cavalry charges in a battle — they are strictly limited in number, they require fresh horses, and must only be made at decisive moments.” - Alfred North Whitehead

> ”By relieving the brain of all unnecessary work, a good notation sets it free to concentrate on more advanced problems, and in effect increases the mental power of the race.” - Alfred North Whitehead

> "Anyone can fight the battles of just one day. It is only when you and I add the battles of those two awful eternities, yesterday and tomorrow, that we break down. It is not the experience of today that drives us mad. It is the remorse or bitterness for something that happened yesterday or the dread of what tomorrow may bring. Let us therefore do our best to live but one day at a time."

> "To be sure the [American productive] ideal confuses excellence with size, happiness with speed, and human nature with contraption." - Walter Lippmann

> "In peace time you did not ask what the fastest motor car was for, and in war you did not ask what the completest victory was for." - Walter Lippmann

> "We tend to overestimate the effect of a technology in the short run and underestimate the effect in the long run." - Roy Amara

> "To illustrate the power of specialized action routines compare trying to write your name with your normal writing hand and with the other hand. Although you have full knowledge of the task it is much harder to do it with the unusual hand, unless you first spend a lot of time practicing, i.e. training the appropriate action mechanisms. **Knowing exactly what you want to write and being able to control your muscles is not enough!**" - Aaron Sloman

> "Some moods (i.e. global states) may be adaptive or ‘rational’ reactions to the environment. E.g. in an environment where most attempts at partly risky actions fail, this can induce a cautious or pessimistic mood in which there is a strong disposition to select the less risky of available alternatives (e.g. lying low, or doing nothing), even where there are options that could achieve far better results." - Aaron Sloman

> "Certain deliberative strategies work well only in certain conditions." - Aaron Sloman

> "Even when self-observations are accurate, self-evaluations may be ill-judged and unproductive, e.g. because some incorrect generalizations from previous experiences cause wrong decisions to be made about what does and does not work, or because religious indoctrination causes some people to categorize normal healthy thoughts and motives as ‘sinful’." - Aaron Sloman
**^ Although I feel that accurately measuring feedback on current actions is more relevant and thus more useful than measuring successes or failures in the past.**

> People tend to make the fundamental attribution error—overestimating the role of dispositional factors and underestimating the role of environmental factors in attributing the causes of others' behaviors. - Bonnie M. Muir

> "They are only afraid of what they don't know, but presented with the concrete task, they find it pleasant and exciting." -  Henoit Mulsant & David Servan-Schreiber

> "Throughout the period I examined, in short, my "thinking" time was devoted mainly to activities that were essentially clerical or mechanical: searching, calculating, plotting, transforming, determining the logical or dynamic consequences of a set of assumptions or hypotheses, preparing the way for a decision or an insight. **Moreover, my choices of what to attempt and what not to attempt were determined to an embarrassingly great extent by considerations of clerical feasibility, not intellectual capability.**" - J. C. R. Licklider

> “Instead of writing ourselves down in a set of rules, we evolve slowly based on what we do.” - Ricardo Semler

> "It is foolish to answer a question that you do not understand. It is sad to work for an end that you do not desire." - G. Polya

> "Makers move forward, analysts get left behind." - Philosophie website

> "A strong opinion is very useful to other people." - Brian Eno

> “Most people are so worried about doing something great that they never do anything at all” - Derek Sivers

> "decision makers can satisfice either by finding optimum solutions for a simplified world, or by finding satisfactory solutions for a more realistic world." - Herbert A. Simon

> “focus on systems, not goals. If I focused too much on where my startup would be when I wanted it to be there, I was miserable. When I focused on just showing up, learning as much as I could, delivering things our customers wanted on a regular basis, I enjoyed it, and we still got great results.” - Nathan Konty

> "First, imagine being a fearless man, and when try to act like one." - Theodore Roosevelt

> "people without a feeling of power over the out world neither flee nor fight."

> "People living deeply have no fear of death." - Anaïs Nin

> “Teaching people how to see beauty will save the world from exploitation more effectively than scientific minutiae.” - Mauro Morandi

> “I would like people to understand that we must try not to look at beauty, but feel beauty with our eyes closed.” - Mauro Morandi

> “Love is an absolute consequence of beauty and vice versa. When you love a person deeply you see him or her as beautiful, but not because you see them as physically beautiful... you empathize with them, you’ve become a part of her and she’s become a part of you. It’s the same thing with nature.” - Mauro Morandi

> “The primary purpose of mathematical writing is to communicate and inform, not to impress.” - Terrence Tao

> “Advice is what we ask for when we already know the answer but wish we didn’t.” - Erica Jong

# My Goals
- master design, so I am best equipped to improve the world
- make enough income to live a healthy life
- be courageous enough to always be kind, loving, and fun
- design everything for smiles, even my own life

# Long-Term Aims
- master and learn all I can about design
- have the courage and clarity to apply my design skills as I obtain them, testing them and exercising them
